#Ideology

The article “China’s Ideological Spectrum” by Jennifer Pan and Yiqing Xu is summarized here:

The study of ideology in authoritarian regimes—of how public preferences are configured and constrained—has received relatively little scholarly attention. This is because the arrangement of preferences is often seen as unimportant where individuals cannot vote or where votes do not meaningfully influence political outcomes. However, studying ideology in authoritarian regimes is valuable because it can shed light on the contours of opposition to and support for the regime. Using data from a large-scale online survey, we study ideology in China. 

We explore ideology in China mainly using data from the online survey zuobiao.me between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2014, with 460,532 respondents attended. These researchers developed the 50 questions that were time-insensitive and covered a wide array of debates on key issues facing China. We group the 50 questions into seven categories: (1) political institutions, (2) individual freedom, (3) market economy, (4) capital and labor, (5) economic sovereignty and globalization, (6) nationalism, and (7) traditionalism. These categories represent areas where cleavages in public preferences, were they to exist, would most likely be found. The survey comprises of 50 statements with responses on a four-point scale—“strongly disagree,” “disagree,” “agree,” and “strongly agree” with no missing data allowed.
And in order to achieve better representativeness across geography and demographics, we construct a new sample of 10,000 observations using a resampling scheme, focusing on urban population, omitting provinces with few sample, approaching the real age and gender composition of china and so on. With this new sample, we conduct all subsequent analyses. 

We uncover three main findings. First, we find that public preferences over policy and social issues are constrained in China. To rule out the possibility that the responses of zuobiao survey are random, we use two different analysis methods to test the existence and evaluate the strength of constraints. Less so than preferences in competitive democracies though, they are grouped in systematic ways that reflect known debates about China’s political, economic, and social trajectory.
Second, the configuration of preferences across different issues reflects known debates, and the respondents’ estimated latent traits in political values, economic policies and social values, and preference for nationalism are highly correlated with one another, and we refer to these highly correlated, three-dimensional ovoid latent traits as China’s ideological spectrum. Individuals with liberal values are also more likely to welcome market-oriented economic polices, embrace non-traditional values, and less likely to subscribe to nationalism. while the other group are more likely to adopt conservative political values, state-intervened economy, and traditional social values, and more likely to be nationalistic.
Third, we find that China’s ideological spectrum is related to respondent personal and regional characteristics. Using three indices to indicate provincial-level economy, the results reveal positive correlations between liberal preferences and these economic variables at a provincial level. To be concrete, a general pattern is shown that provinces with higher average disposable incomes, more urban residents, and more trade openness tend to have more liberal preferences on average while poorer provinces with lower levels of development and openness tend to have more conservative political preferences on average. And we see similar patterns for the pro-market/non-traditional dimension and the nationalism dimension.

These results shed light on our understanding of potential opposition to CCP rule. The belief system we identify does not reflect an alignment of pro-regime or anti-regime preferences. Even though those who are better educated and wealthier may prefer changes to China’s current political system, these preferences may not lead to opposition if the CCP maintains the trajectory of market-based economy. Similarly, those who oppose economic reforms—the less educated, the less well-off, those who have benefited less from China’s economic reforms—support the continuation of CCP rule. On the whole, the current configuration of preferences in China does not appear conducive to the development of consolidated opposition to Communist Party rule. 
